### Randomness

what is the difference between pseudo randomness and true randomness?

(pseudo)Statistical Randomness
- every bit has an equal probability of being 0 or 1

(true)Cryptographic randomness: add
- given all the previous bits generated by the random number generator, one cannot predict the next bit

computers can come up with truly random numbers by using the hardware like for instance the white noise from a room is random, and can be encoded to bits.

#### Seed generation

conceptually: pick something different each time

problem: theses are often predictable

not secure

#### Common seeding errors

seed from a very limited space 
- if your seed is 8 bits, there are only 256 possible initial state for the generator
	- doesn't matter how big the internal state is
using the current time or its hash

disclose the seed
- in the case of using the time as the seed, you may send the time the seed was generated in the message and there for you have given the persona all they need to decipher the random number 

#### Some Fallacies

complex manipulation
- if the adversary can use the algorithm and there is not enough unpredictability in the seed, this doesn't help
- the manipulation itself may look good but prove to be poor

Random selection from a large database
- if the adversary can find the selection, she can reproduce the stream


#### Picking a good seed

use a source of physical randomness
- be sure it really is random!
- example audio device on workstation, or radioactivity. wuurring of a machine is not random

use events on the computer that are seemingly random, such as the length of time between keystrokes

gather system data that is constantly changing (such as the output from ps gaux, process id, and so forth) and hash it using a crypto hash

#### Devices generating random data

/dev/random
- returns random bytes, from a pool of random bytes until it exhausts the bytes it produces more bytes
/dev/urandom
- returns random bytes, if it runs out of random bytes from the pool it starts a pseudo random number generation
- DO NOT USE FOR CRYPTO

### Basics
##### Policy

what does "protect" mean?
- keep the data confidential?
- protect it from unauthorised changes?
- be able to tie the data to someone?

secret key
- Symmetric
- sender, recipient have the same key
- we'll call the key "secret"

Public key
- Asymmetric
- Sender, recipient use different keys
- each has 2 keys: one to encipher, on to decipher
- enciphering key is public